propaganda space race to reach visitor asteroid
player's side is losing, the other guys are sending 2 man mission and are ahead, you are 1 man mission and hope to win.
seems like the other side mission crashed / lost contact
you land.
you only have an hour or so, the asteroid is miving away rapidly and you won't be able to get back if you linger.
ship acts as radio relay

new orders: don't investigate crash, if there are survivors, then you can't mount a rescue mission anyway
new orders: you place one of your science equipment
return to ship for the second equipment, and find an astronaut standing next to your ship
as you approach, the astronaut collapses
looks like the astrnaut is dead ( or the suit was empty? creepy empty suit walking around for some reason? why? )
new orders: investigate crash site of the other mission
you find their ship intact, didn't crash.
you find an empty helmet? no other bodies.

new orders: resume placing your science equipment
find a tunnel on your way there
new orders:  investigate tunnel
you find an artificial door, closed.
new orders: retrieve some kind of explosive from your ship to blow the door open (do spaceships have explosives?)
you return with explosive and find the door to be open
you enter and fond the other dead astronaut in some alien contrapition
there is an artificial structure beyond the door.
no signal.
get back outside to report.
get out, no contact with ship.
you approach ship find alien being messing about with your ship.

ending option A: attack with explosive to kill the alien, player sacrifices themselves. left with unknwns if this even worked
ending option B: sneak to the creature (while sun is up?), attach explosive to ship, damaging it and gtfo, then try to reach other ship and leave in a clutch as the creature is chasing you? heroic excape.
ending option C: you approiach and make contact, creature does some trippy wierd shit to you, your get 2001 space odessy type of trip and the end. player left with questions. was this a good idea to leave two ships to the alien?
ending option D: fuck off and try to get back home using other ship, leaving creature with your ship. coward's ending?




would be cool, if the alien is dormant in the sun and becomes active in the dark. need to telegraph this somehow. the asteroid is rotating, so sun comes and goes.
footprints -- should the game leave footprints when you walk and these prints don't ever go away? is this super overhead for Unity? can use footprints as some storytelling mechanism too.

---

2017


1I/ʻOumuamua 


first confirmed interstellar object detected passing through the Solar System.


The first time an interstellar object was detected passing through the solar system was In 2017


In 2017 1I/ʻOumuamua was discovered.
The first interstellar object ever detected passing through our solar system.
It came from the dark.
It will never return.








Now, another object has been found.
Every space agency on Earth is racing to be the first to put a human on it.
We are not winning.


A new interstellar object has been discovered
--
https://freesound.org/
https://getsoundly.com/
https://polyhaven.com/a/namaqualand_boulder_02
AmbientCG
Sketchfab~~
Unity Asset Store (Free)

Soundly
FreeSound CC0 / CC-BY
OpenGameArt
Kenney Audio

itch.io (audio assets)

skybox credit
font credit


Sodaphonic (Web App)
Audacity
Cakewalk



-----------

Distance: 1.5 million km from Earth ~4x distance to moon? show this too...
Mission: Single astronaut sent to it for a propaganda/military/social clout reason
Trajectory: Straight shot with Apollo-style rocket → coasting most of the way
Time: ~9 days each way
Return: Less fuel needed since asteroid has negligible gravity
Communication lag: ~5 seconds one way